0. Description
--------------
A python package for image processing and scientific analysis of imaging modalities such as multi-frequency scanning probe microscopy,
scanning tunneling spectroscopy, x-ray diffraction microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy.
Classes implemented here are ported to a high performance computing platform at Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL).

1. Package Structure
--------------------
The package structure is simple, with 4 main modules:
   1. `io`: Input/Output from custom & proprietary microscope formats to HDF5.
   2. `processing`: Multivariate Statistics, Machine Learning, and Filtering.
   3. `analysis`: Model-dependent analysis of image information.
   4. `viz`: Visualization and interactive slicing of high-dimensional data by lightweight Qt viewers.

Once a user converts their microscope's data format into an HDF5 format, by simply extending some of the classes in `io`, the user gains access to the rest of the utilities present in `pycroscopy.*`. 

2. Installation
---------------
Pycroscopy requires many commonly used python packages such as numpy, scipy etc. To simplify the installation process, we recommend the installation of Anaconda which contains most of the prerequisite packages as well as a development environment - Spyder. We are currently testing python 3 compatibility (see the cades_dev branch).

   1. Uninstall existing Python 2.7 distribution(s) if installed.  Restart computer afterwards.

   2. Install Anaconda 4.2.13 Python 2.7 64-bit:
      
      a. Mac users: <https://repo.continuum.io/archive/Anaconda2-4.2.0-MacOSX-x86_64.pkg>
      
      b. Windows users: <https://repo.continuum.io/archive/Anaconda2-4.2.0-Windows-x86_64.exe>

      c. Linux users: <https://repo.continuum.io/archive/Anaconda2-4.2.0-Linux-x86_64.sh>
	  
   3. Install pycroscopy:
   
      Open a terminal (mac / linux) or command prompt (windows, if possible with administrator priveleges) and type:
      
         pip install pycroscopy
         
   4. Enjoy pycroscopy!
   
If you would like to quickly view HDF5 files generated by and used in pycroscopy, we recommend HDF View - available at <https://support.hdfgroup.org/products/java/hdfview/>

3. API and Documentation
------------------------
See our homepage at https://pycroscopy.github.io/pycroscopy/ for more info.
Our api documentation can be found at <http://pycroscopy.readthedocs.io/>.

4. Examples and Resources
-------------------------
* Scientific workflows are available through jupyter notebooks (http://jupyter.org) at: https://github.com/pycroscopy/pycroscopy/tree/master/jupyter_notebooks . Many of these are tied to journal publications (see below).
* Videos and other tutorials are available at: http://ifim.ornl.gov/resources.html

5. Journal Papers using pycroscopy
----------------------------------
1. "Big Data Analytics for Scanning Transmission Electron Microscopy Ptychography" by S. Jesse et al., https://www.nature.com/articles/srep26348 - workflow shown in: https://github.com/pycroscopy/pycroscopy/blob/master/jupyter_notebooks/Ptychography.ipynb
 
2. "Rapid mapping of polarization switching through complete information acquisition" by S. Somnath et al., http://www.nature.com/articles/ncomms13290 - workflow shown in: https://github.com/pycroscopy/pycroscopy/blob/master/jupyter_notebooks/G_mode_filtering.ipynb
 
3. "Improving superconductivity in BaFe2As2-based crystals by cobalt clustering and electronic uniformity" by L. Li et al., http://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-017-00984-1 - workflow shown in: https://github.com/pycroscopy/pycroscopy/blob/master/jupyter_notebooks/STS_LDOS.ipynb
 
4. "Direct Imaging of the Relaxation of Individual Ferroelectric Interfaces in a Tensile-Strained Film" by L. Li -  http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/aelm.201600508/full - workflow shown in - https://github.com/pycroscopy/pycroscopy/blob/master/jupyter_notebooks/BE_Processing.ipynb

6. International conferences and workshops
------------------------------------------
* Aug 8 2017 @ 10:45 AM - Microscopy and Microanalysis conference - poster session
* Aug 9 2017 @ 8:30 - 10:00 AM - Microscopy and Microanalysis conference; X40 - Tutorial session on "Large Scale Data Acquisition and Analysis for Materials Imaging and Spectroscopy" by S. Jesse and A. Belianinov
* Oct 31 2017 @ 6:30 PM - American Vacuum Society conference;  Session: SP-TuP1; poster 1641
* Dec 2017 - Materials Research Society conference

7. Pycroscopy news
------------------
* Apr 2017 - Lecture on atom finding: https://physics.appstate.edu/events/aberration-corrected-stem-teaching-machines-and-atomic-forge
* Dec 2016 - Poster + abstract at the 2017 Spring Materials Research Society (MRS) conference: https://mrsspring.zerista.com/poster/member/85350


