Frequently asked questions
==========================

**1.  How is pycroscopy different from ImageJ / FIJI / ImageSXM / WSXM?**

> ImageJ / FIJI / ImageSXM / WSXM are all excellent software packages for dealing with conventional and popular microscopy data such as 2D images or a handful of spectra. Pycroscopy was built for a completely different purpose and with a unique philosophy. Pycroscopy solves some truly challenging problems that none of the other packages do - It can handle arbitrarily large datasets (Gigabytes / Terabytes / or even larger) with arbitrary dimensionality (any combination of dimensionality in position and spectral space. We have had absolutely no problem dealing with datasets with more than 9 unique dimensions - see Band Excitation Polarization Switching + First Order Reversal Curve probing). In addition, Pycroscopy takes a data centric approach aimed towards open science wherein all the data starting from the raw measurement from the instrument, all the way to the final data that is plotted in the resulting scientific publication, are contained in the same file. The processing steps applied to the data are completely transparent and traceable. Furthermore, pycroscopy was developed from the ground up to be compatible with both laptops and supercomputers.  

**2. Why not use established file formats from other domains?**

> It is true that we really don't want yet another format in our lives. We wanted to adopt a file format that is already widely accepted in supercomputing, scientific research, can be accessed from any programming language. We chose HDF5 since it suits our needs perfectly. We found that existing data formats in science such as the Nexus data format and NetCDF were designed for narrow purposes and we did not want to shoehorn our data structure into those formats. Furthermore, despite being some of the more popular scientific data formats, it is not immidiately straightforward to read those files on every computer using any programming language. For example - the Anaconda python distribution does not come with any packages for reading these file formats. Moreover, Adios, Nexus, NetCDF, and even Matlab's .mat files are actually (now) just custom flavors of HDF5 files thereby unanimously validating our decision to choose HDF5 as our file format. Unlike Nexus, NetCDF, Matlab's .mat files, pycroscopy does not impose any restrictions or requirements on the HDF5 file. Instead, implementing the pycroscopy data format only increases the functionality of the very same datasets in pycroscopy. 
